#An Apology for the English Presbyterians with a defence of the heads of agreement assented to by the united ministers in the year 91.#
An Apology for the English Presbyterians with a defence of the heads of agreement assented to by the united ministers in the year 91.

##General Summary##

**Links**

[TCP catalogue](http://www.ota.ox.ac.uk/tcp/)  • 
[HTML](http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-HTML/free/A25/A25697.html)  • 
[EPUB](http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-EPUB/free/A25/A25697.epub) • 
[Page images (Historical Texts)](https://historicaltexts.jisc.ac.uk/eebo-12728448e)

**Availability**

To the extent possible under law, the Text Creation Partnership has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this keyboarded and encoded edition of the work described above, according to the terms of the CC0 1.0 Public Domain Dedication (http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/). This waiver does not extend to any page images or other supplementary files associated with this work, which may be protected by copyright or other license restrictions. Please go to https://www.textcreationpartnership.org/ for more information about the project.

**Major revisions**

1. __2012-05__ __TCP__ *Assigned for keying and markup*
1. __2012-06__ __SPi Global__ *Keyed and coded from ProQuest page images*
1. __2012-12__ __Simon Charles__ *Sampled and proofread*
1. __2012-12__ __Simon Charles__ *Text and markup reviewed and edited*
1. __2013-02__ __pfs__ *Batch review (QC) and XML conversion*

##Content Summary##

#####Front#####
AN APOLOGY FOR THE Engliſh Presbyterians, WITH A DEFENCE OF THE Heads of Agreement Aſſented to by th
1. TO THE READER.

1. ERRATA.

#####Body#####

1. AN APOLOGY FOR THE Engliſh Presbyterians.
THE Prejudices, which are, in the minds of many, againſt the Presbyterians in this Kingdom, ariſing §.1. THE Principles held by the Engliſh Presbyterians about the Conſtitution, and Power of Particula§.2. The Principles, which the Claſſical or Scotch Presbyterians, who aſſert the Divine Right of a N§.3. In theſe particular Inſtances, you have a full, though brief Account of what is embraced by the§.4. That I may do the Engliſh Preſbyterians Juſtice, in the repreſenting their Principles I muſt co§.1. ABout the time that Luther with many others endeavour'd a Reformation of the Church, the Great §.2. The Domination, and Tyranny of Popiſh Prelates, who aimed more at Worldly Grandeur, than at the§.3. The firſt Reformers, as many of their Fore-Fathers, ſuch as the Wickliffiſts, Huſſiſts, &c. gro§.4. Here the Reformed fix'd their Foot, affirming, that the Univerſal Church was made up only of El§.5. The Papiſts being fully convinced that the Reformers had taken the moſt effectual way to ſubver§.6. The Reformed in this Kingdom agree'd with the Wickliffiſts, Huſſiſts, and Lutheranes, owning th§.7. If all that Power, which is meerly Spiritual and Eccleſiaſtical, be appropriated to particular §.8. This being for many Years after the Reformation began in this Land, generally received, the Eng§.9. The general Vogue of the Epiſcopal, as well as the Cry of the Nonconformiſts, being againſt the§.10. Dr. Heylin, a chief Inſtrument in this Deſign, did on the 24th day of April, Ann. 1627. anſwer§.11. In the Year 1633. Heylin was at Oxon to Anſwer for his Degree of Doctor, and inſiſted on the A§.12. Dr. Prideaux, then in the Chair, expreſſed great Diſſatisfaction with Heylin, charging him wit§.13. There was, we ſee, a great deal of ſtreſs laid on this Clauſe of the 20th Article, becauſe the§.14. (1.) That this Clauſe is not either in the Latin or Engliſh Copies, Printed Ann. 1571. is gran§.15. That the Old Nonconformists, whom I call Engliſh Presbyterians, being firm Adherers unto the f§.16. The Learned Mr. Cartwright, a Perſon of that eſteem amongſt the Nonconformiſts in the Reign of§.17. This Learned Cartwright, writing in Defence of the Admonition tot he Parliament, (Publiſhed in§.18. What I ſhall offer from the multitude of Nonconformists, whoſe Sorrows encreaſed on James the §.9. Soon after this Proteſtation, a Chriſtian, and Modest Offer of a most Indifferent Conference, o§.10. What is here affirm'd by theſe Deprived Miniſters is ſo full, not only againſt the Dioceſan, b§.11. And as they ſo freely expreſs their own true Senſe in theſe Matters, ſo it is with an Aſſuranc§.12. Theſe Engliſh Presbyterians were ſo fully convinced of the Truth of the aforeſaid Propoſitions§.13. As this offer for a Conference was made in the Year 1606, ſo 'twas followed Anno 1609, with a §.14. Theſe Quotations out of the old Engliſh Presbyterians, do ſufficiently evince, that they held,§.15. That in theſe Inſtances the Engliſh Presbyterian, and the Congregationalist are moſt entirely §.1. THE Engliſh Presbyterians, conſidered in Contradiſtinction unto the Browniſts, and other Diſſen§.2. This being a Point of extraordinary Importance, in the preſent Caſe, I will be the more Diſtinc§.3. My deſign is cheifly to clear the Truth and ſhow, that as the Independents did undoubtedly thei§.4. 1. That the Prelatiſts had their ſhare in the hindring it, is Apparent from what is in the Lett§.5. 2. The great Impediment that lay in their way, was the Power of the Engliſh Presbyterians, who §.6. 1. This Synod was not called either in the Dioceſan, or Claſſical way, as Mr. Baxter obſerves, §.7. 2. This Aſſembly when thus called, could not proceed by virtue of any Inherent Power in themſel§.8. 3. That one Reaſon, why the Aſſembly never adventur'd upon the ſettling the Divine Right of the§.9. 4. That the Author of certain Conſiderations tending to Peace amongſt Proteſtants, Printed by P§.10. 5. The Presbyterians of the Province of London, conſidering the Church-Government Eſtabliſhed S.11. 6. That Part of the Aſſemblies Confeſſion, which gave moſt Countenance to the Claſſical way, a§.12. Theſe Conſiderations may convince the Impartial Reader, that how much ſoever the Engliſh Presb§.13. Tho in many Places the Miniſters were for it, yet as Dr. Du-Moulin,When the Presbyterian Gover§.14. The Cheſhire Miniſters in their Atteſtation to the Teſtimony of the Reverend Brethren of the P§.15. There were amongſt the Miniſters a conſiderable Number, who entered into Aſſociations, and ſet§.16. Thus great Endeavours were, during the time the Aſſembly ſate, for the bringing in the Claſſic§.1. WHen Charles II. was Reſtored, ſoon after the Presbyterians were caſt out, and the Epiſcopal pu§.2. 1. Dr. Collings, who laboured much, and wrote well in the Controverſie about Church-Government,§.3. 2. In the Account he gives of their Opinions, he tells us, That they were for a Catholick Churc§.4. 3. The Doctor, in theſe Paragraphs, as he truly Repreſents the Engliſh Presbyterians to be of O§.5. 1. The Learned Mr. Baxter, who about the Nature and Conſtitution of Particular Churches, hath b§.6. 2. That he may the more clearly ſhew where the Strength of his Arguments doth lie, he diſtingui§.7. 3. Communion, which is the Eſſentiating End of theſe Societies, is twofold, The One ſort is in §.8. 4. That that Communion which is ſtretched beyond the Bounds of one ſingle Congregation, being o§.9. 5. This Point being with much earneſtneſs ſtated by this Learned Perſon, he declares in the Nar§.10. 6. What Mr. B. here affirms, reſpects chiefly the Communion of the Church, and upon this accou§.11. 7. That he was ſatisfied his Arguments were as much againſt Claſſical, as they were againſt Di§.12. What more directly belongs to the Government of the Church, we ſhall conſider, if God will, el§.1. THAT it may be the more eaſily underſtood what Principles the Presbyterians, who were Men of Se§.2. This Controverſie, as to that part of it which concerns my preſent Purpoſe, may be reduced to t§.3. In the Writings of Cawdrey, Hudſon, Hooker, Stone, Allen, Sheppard, and the Diſſenting Brethren§.4. 1. The Learned Mr. Cawdrey, who agreeth in Opinion with the Judicious Mr. Hudſon, and the Londo§.5. 2. The Judicious Mr. Hudſon, ſtates the Controverſie after the ſame manner, but more elaboratel§.6. 1. On the other hand, the First Reformers of all Perſwaſions ſubverted this Notion in their Opp§.7. 2. Fit Matter Combined, before formed into an Organick Body, is, (with them) the Church Eſſenti§.8. Theſe two Reverend Brethren do not, (I confeſs) think themſelves obliged to encumber this Contr§.9. Theſe then are the Points wherein Mr. Cawdrey, Hudſon, and others, who were for the Claſſical C§.10. Well then let us in the next place compare theſe diſtinct Notions with the late Heads of Agree§.11. 1. If we do but impartially obſerve the Deſign of this Agreement, we ſhall find it to be nothi§.12. 2. We did expreſs our Diſlike of that Principle, on which either a Dioceſan, or Claſſical Chur§.13. 3. Agreeably hereunto, a particular Church ESSENTIAL, with its Rights and Liberties, is Aſſert§.14. 4. There is ſpecial care taken to ſecure this Principle by declaring in the ſecond Article, Th§.15. 5. This particular Congregational Church Eſſential, is more particularly deſcribed as to its M§.16. The Right of this Church Eſſential to chooſe its own Officers, is ſecured by Art. 6. That each§.17. 1. If this Article contains not the Truth, then indeed the Cauſe muſt be yielded to the Claſſi§.18. 2. But, if this Article, of the Ʋnited Brethren DOTH contain the Truth, and a particular Churc§.19. 3. If the Ʋnited Brethren, namely, the Engliſh Presbyterian and Congregationalists, do herein §.20. The Strength of what they offer on this Occaſion, lieth here; namely, in caſe Viſible Saints c§.21. As the Ʋnited Brethren have Aſſerted Particular Churches to be Congregational, ſo it's evident§.22. By the Heads of Agreement, as all that Church Power we claim is confined to Particular Congreg§.23. That very Form of Church Government, which alone can give juſt Ground of Suſpicion, is as Deſt§.24. That they deſtroy our Church way, is farther evident, in that they bring every Paroch and Cong§.25. That we are fully perſwaded, their Soundneſs in the Faith is ſuch, that they will never approv§.26. I might here take notice by whom this Claſſical Model was hatch'd, and how it was nouriſh'd un§.27. When our Governours, in their great Wiſdom, ſhall conſider how ſtrongly the Principles of the 
    _ SECT. I.
§.1. THE Principles held by the Engliſh Presbyterians about the Conſtitution, and Power of Particula§.2. The Principles, which the Claſſical or Scotch Presbyterians, who aſſert the Divine Right of a N§.3. In theſe particular Inſtances, you have a full, though brief Account of what is embraced by the§.4. That I may do the Engliſh Preſbyterians Juſtice, in the repreſenting their Principles I muſt co§.1. ABout the time that Luther with many others endeavour'd a Reformation of the Church, the Great §.2. The Domination, and Tyranny of Popiſh Prelates, who aimed more at Worldly Grandeur, than at the§.3. The firſt Reformers, as many of their Fore-Fathers, ſuch as the Wickliffiſts, Huſſiſts, &c. gro§.4. Here the Reformed fix'd their Foot, affirming, that the Univerſal Church was made up only of El§.5. The Papiſts being fully convinced that the Reformers had taken the moſt effectual way to ſubver§.6. The Reformed in this Kingdom agree'd with the Wickliffiſts, Huſſiſts, and Lutheranes, owning th§.7. If all that Power, which is meerly Spiritual and Eccleſiaſtical, be appropriated to particular §.8. This being for many Years after the Reformation began in this Land, generally received, the Eng§.9. The general Vogue of the Epiſcopal, as well as the Cry of the Nonconformiſts, being againſt the§.10. Dr. Heylin, a chief Inſtrument in this Deſign, did on the 24th day of April, Ann. 1627. anſwer§.11. In the Year 1633. Heylin was at Oxon to Anſwer for his Degree of Doctor, and inſiſted on the A§.12. Dr. Prideaux, then in the Chair, expreſſed great Diſſatisfaction with Heylin, charging him wit§.13. There was, we ſee, a great deal of ſtreſs laid on this Clauſe of the 20th Article, becauſe the§.14. (1.) That this Clauſe is not either in the Latin or Engliſh Copies, Printed Ann. 1571. is gran§.15. That the Old Nonconformists, whom I call Engliſh Presbyterians, being firm Adherers unto the f§.16. The Learned Mr. Cartwright, a Perſon of that eſteem amongſt the Nonconformiſts in the Reign of§.17. This Learned Cartwright, writing in Defence of the Admonition tot he Parliament, (Publiſhed in§.18. What I ſhall offer from the multitude of Nonconformists, whoſe Sorrows encreaſed on James the §.9. Soon after this Proteſtation, a Chriſtian, and Modest Offer of a most Indifferent Conference, o§.10. What is here affirm'd by theſe Deprived Miniſters is ſo full, not only againſt the Dioceſan, b§.11. And as they ſo freely expreſs their own true Senſe in theſe Matters, ſo it is with an Aſſuranc§.12. Theſe Engliſh Presbyterians were ſo fully convinced of the Truth of the aforeſaid Propoſitions§.13. As this offer for a Conference was made in the Year 1606, ſo 'twas followed Anno 1609, with a §.14. Theſe Quotations out of the old Engliſh Presbyterians, do ſufficiently evince, that they held,§.15. That in theſe Inſtances the Engliſh Presbyterian, and the Congregationalist are moſt entirely §.1. THE Engliſh Presbyterians, conſidered in Contradiſtinction unto the Browniſts, and other Diſſen§.2. This being a Point of extraordinary Importance, in the preſent Caſe, I will be the more Diſtinc§.3. My deſign is cheifly to clear the Truth and ſhow, that as the Independents did undoubtedly thei§.4. 1. That the Prelatiſts had their ſhare in the hindring it, is Apparent from what is in the Lett§.5. 2. The great Impediment that lay in their way, was the Power of the Engliſh Presbyterians, who §.6. 1. This Synod was not called either in the Dioceſan, or Claſſical way, as Mr. Baxter obſerves, §.7. 2. This Aſſembly when thus called, could not proceed by virtue of any Inherent Power in themſel§.8. 3. That one Reaſon, why the Aſſembly never adventur'd upon the ſettling the Divine Right of the§.9. 4. That the Author of certain Conſiderations tending to Peace amongſt Proteſtants, Printed by P§.10. 5. The Presbyterians of the Province of London, conſidering the Church-Government Eſtabliſhed S.11. 6. That Part of the Aſſemblies Confeſſion, which gave moſt Countenance to the Claſſical way, a§.12. Theſe Conſiderations may convince the Impartial Reader, that how much ſoever the Engliſh Presb§.13. Tho in many Places the Miniſters were for it, yet as Dr. Du-Moulin,When the Presbyterian Gover§.14. The Cheſhire Miniſters in their Atteſtation to the Teſtimony of the Reverend Brethren of the P§.15. There were amongſt the Miniſters a conſiderable Number, who entered into Aſſociations, and ſet§.16. Thus great Endeavours were, during the time the Aſſembly ſate, for the bringing in the Claſſic§.1. WHen Charles II. was Reſtored, ſoon after the Presbyterians were caſt out, and the Epiſcopal pu§.2. 1. Dr. Collings, who laboured much, and wrote well in the Controverſie about Church-Government,§.3. 2. In the Account he gives of their Opinions, he tells us, That they were for a Catholick Churc§.4. 3. The Doctor, in theſe Paragraphs, as he truly Repreſents the Engliſh Presbyterians to be of O§.5. 1. The Learned Mr. Baxter, who about the Nature and Conſtitution of Particular Churches, hath b§.6. 2. That he may the more clearly ſhew where the Strength of his Arguments doth lie, he diſtingui§.7. 3. Communion, which is the Eſſentiating End of theſe Societies, is twofold, The One ſort is in §.8. 4. That that Communion which is ſtretched beyond the Bounds of one ſingle Congregation, being o§.9. 5. This Point being with much earneſtneſs ſtated by this Learned Perſon, he declares in the Nar§.10. 6. What Mr. B. here affirms, reſpects chiefly the Communion of the Church, and upon this accou§.11. 7. That he was ſatisfied his Arguments were as much againſt Claſſical, as they were againſt Di§.12. What more directly belongs to the Government of the Church, we ſhall conſider, if God will, el§.1. THAT it may be the more eaſily underſtood what Principles the Presbyterians, who were Men of Se§.2. This Controverſie, as to that part of it which concerns my preſent Purpoſe, may be reduced to t§.3. In the Writings of Cawdrey, Hudſon, Hooker, Stone, Allen, Sheppard, and the Diſſenting Brethren§.4. 1. The Learned Mr. Cawdrey, who agreeth in Opinion with the Judicious Mr. Hudſon, and the Londo§.5. 2. The Judicious Mr. Hudſon, ſtates the Controverſie after the ſame manner, but more elaboratel§.6. 1. On the other hand, the First Reformers of all Perſwaſions ſubverted this Notion in their Opp§.7. 2. Fit Matter Combined, before formed into an Organick Body, is, (with them) the Church Eſſenti§.8. Theſe two Reverend Brethren do not, (I confeſs) think themſelves obliged to encumber this Contr§.9. Theſe then are the Points wherein Mr. Cawdrey, Hudſon, and others, who were for the Claſſical C§.10. Well then let us in the next place compare theſe diſtinct Notions with the late Heads of Agree§.11. 1. If we do but impartially obſerve the Deſign of this Agreement, we ſhall find it to be nothi§.12. 2. We did expreſs our Diſlike of that Principle, on which either a Dioceſan, or Claſſical Chur§.13. 3. Agreeably hereunto, a particular Church ESSENTIAL, with its Rights and Liberties, is Aſſert§.14. 4. There is ſpecial care taken to ſecure this Principle by declaring in the ſecond Article, Th§.15. 5. This particular Congregational Church Eſſential, is more particularly deſcribed as to its M§.16. The Right of this Church Eſſential to chooſe its own Officers, is ſecured by Art. 6. That each§.17. 1. If this Article contains not the Truth, then indeed the Cauſe muſt be yielded to the Claſſi§.18. 2. But, if this Article, of the Ʋnited Brethren DOTH contain the Truth, and a particular Churc§.19. 3. If the Ʋnited Brethren, namely, the Engliſh Presbyterian and Congregationalists, do herein §.20. The Strength of what they offer on this Occaſion, lieth here; namely, in caſe Viſible Saints c§.21. As the Ʋnited Brethren have Aſſerted Particular Churches to be Congregational, ſo it's evident§.22. By the Heads of Agreement, as all that Church Power we claim is confined to Particular Congreg§.23. That very Form of Church Government, which alone can give juſt Ground of Suſpicion, is as Deſt§.24. That they deſtroy our Church way, is farther evident, in that they bring every Paroch and Cong§.25. That we are fully perſwaded, their Soundneſs in the Faith is ſuch, that they will never approv§.26. I might here take notice by whom this Claſſical Model was hatch'd, and how it was nouriſh'd un§.27. When our Governours, in their great Wiſdom, ſhall conſider how ſtrongly the Principles of the 
    _ SECT. II.
§.1. THE Principles held by the Engliſh Presbyterians about the Conſtitution, and Power of Particula§.2. The Principles, which the Claſſical or Scotch Presbyterians, who aſſert the Divine Right of a N§.3. In theſe particular Inſtances, you have a full, though brief Account of what is embraced by the§.4. That I may do the Engliſh Preſbyterians Juſtice, in the repreſenting their Principles I muſt co§.1. ABout the time that Luther with many others endeavour'd a Reformation of the Church, the Great §.2. The Domination, and Tyranny of Popiſh Prelates, who aimed more at Worldly Grandeur, than at the§.3. The firſt Reformers, as many of their Fore-Fathers, ſuch as the Wickliffiſts, Huſſiſts, &c. gro§.4. Here the Reformed fix'd their Foot, affirming, that the Univerſal Church was made up only of El§.5. The Papiſts being fully convinced that the Reformers had taken the moſt effectual way to ſubver§.6. The Reformed in this Kingdom agree'd with the Wickliffiſts, Huſſiſts, and Lutheranes, owning th§.7. If all that Power, which is meerly Spiritual and Eccleſiaſtical, be appropriated to particular §.8. This being for many Years after the Reformation began in this Land, generally received, the Eng§.9. The general Vogue of the Epiſcopal, as well as the Cry of the Nonconformiſts, being againſt the§.10. Dr. Heylin, a chief Inſtrument in this Deſign, did on the 24th day of April, Ann. 1627. anſwer§.11. In the Year 1633. Heylin was at Oxon to Anſwer for his Degree of Doctor, and inſiſted on the A§.12. Dr. Prideaux, then in the Chair, expreſſed great Diſſatisfaction with Heylin, charging him wit§.13. There was, we ſee, a great deal of ſtreſs laid on this Clauſe of the 20th Article, becauſe the§.14. (1.) That this Clauſe is not either in the Latin or Engliſh Copies, Printed Ann. 1571. is gran§.15. That the Old Nonconformists, whom I call Engliſh Presbyterians, being firm Adherers unto the f§.16. The Learned Mr. Cartwright, a Perſon of that eſteem amongſt the Nonconformiſts in the Reign of§.17. This Learned Cartwright, writing in Defence of the Admonition tot he Parliament, (Publiſhed in§.18. What I ſhall offer from the multitude of Nonconformists, whoſe Sorrows encreaſed on James the §.9. Soon after this Proteſtation, a Chriſtian, and Modest Offer of a most Indifferent Conference, o§.10. What is here affirm'd by theſe Deprived Miniſters is ſo full, not only againſt the Dioceſan, b§.11. And as they ſo freely expreſs their own true Senſe in theſe Matters, ſo it is with an Aſſuranc§.12. Theſe Engliſh Presbyterians were ſo fully convinced of the Truth of the aforeſaid Propoſitions§.13. As this offer for a Conference was made in the Year 1606, ſo 'twas followed Anno 1609, with a §.14. Theſe Quotations out of the old Engliſh Presbyterians, do ſufficiently evince, that they held,§.15. That in theſe Inſtances the Engliſh Presbyterian, and the Congregationalist are moſt entirely §.1. THE Engliſh Presbyterians, conſidered in Contradiſtinction unto the Browniſts, and other Diſſen§.2. This being a Point of extraordinary Importance, in the preſent Caſe, I will be the more Diſtinc§.3. My deſign is cheifly to clear the Truth and ſhow, that as the Independents did undoubtedly thei§.4. 1. That the Prelatiſts had their ſhare in the hindring it, is Apparent from what is in the Lett§.5. 2. The great Impediment that lay in their way, was the Power of the Engliſh Presbyterians, who §.6. 1. This Synod was not called either in the Dioceſan, or Claſſical way, as Mr. Baxter obſerves, §.7. 2. This Aſſembly when thus called, could not proceed by virtue of any Inherent Power in themſel§.8. 3. That one Reaſon, why the Aſſembly never adventur'd upon the ſettling the Divine Right of the§.9. 4. That the Author of certain Conſiderations tending to Peace amongſt Proteſtants, Printed by P§.10. 5. The Presbyterians of the Province of London, conſidering the Church-Government Eſtabliſhed S.11. 6. That Part of the Aſſemblies Confeſſion, which gave moſt Countenance to the Claſſical way, a§.12. Theſe Conſiderations may convince the Impartial Reader, that how much ſoever the Engliſh Presb§.13. Tho in many Places the Miniſters were for it, yet as Dr. Du-Moulin,When the Presbyterian Gover§.14. The Cheſhire Miniſters in their Atteſtation to the Teſtimony of the Reverend Brethren of the P§.15. There were amongſt the Miniſters a conſiderable Number, who entered into Aſſociations, and ſet§.16. Thus great Endeavours were, during the time the Aſſembly ſate, for the bringing in the Claſſic§.1. WHen Charles II. was Reſtored, ſoon after the Presbyterians were caſt out, and the Epiſcopal pu§.2. 1. Dr. Collings, who laboured much, and wrote well in the Controverſie about Church-Government,§.3. 2. In the Account he gives of their Opinions, he tells us, That they were for a Catholick Churc§.4. 3. The Doctor, in theſe Paragraphs, as he truly Repreſents the Engliſh Presbyterians to be of O§.5. 1. The Learned Mr. Baxter, who about the Nature and Conſtitution of Particular Churches, hath b§.6. 2. That he may the more clearly ſhew where the Strength of his Arguments doth lie, he diſtingui§.7. 3. Communion, which is the Eſſentiating End of theſe Societies, is twofold, The One ſort is in §.8. 4. That that Communion which is ſtretched beyond the Bounds of one ſingle Congregation, being o§.9. 5. This Point being with much earneſtneſs ſtated by this Learned Perſon, he declares in the Nar§.10. 6. What Mr. B. here affirms, reſpects chiefly the Communion of the Church, and upon this accou§.11. 7. That he was ſatisfied his Arguments were as much againſt Claſſical, as they were againſt Di§.12. What more directly belongs to the Government of the Church, we ſhall conſider, if God will, el§.1. THAT it may be the more eaſily underſtood what Principles the Presbyterians, who were Men of Se§.2. This Controverſie, as to that part of it which concerns my preſent Purpoſe, may be reduced to t§.3. In the Writings of Cawdrey, Hudſon, Hooker, Stone, Allen, Sheppard, and the Diſſenting Brethren§.4. 1. The Learned Mr. Cawdrey, who agreeth in Opinion with the Judicious Mr. Hudſon, and the Londo§.5. 2. The Judicious Mr. Hudſon, ſtates the Controverſie after the ſame manner, but more elaboratel§.6. 1. On the other hand, the First Reformers of all Perſwaſions ſubverted this Notion in their Opp§.7. 2. Fit Matter Combined, before formed into an Organick Body, is, (with them) the Church Eſſenti§.8. Theſe two Reverend Brethren do not, (I confeſs) think themſelves obliged to encumber this Contr§.9. Theſe then are the Points wherein Mr. Cawdrey, Hudſon, and others, who were for the Claſſical C§.10. Well then let us in the next place compare theſe diſtinct Notions with the late Heads of Agree§.11. 1. If we do but impartially obſerve the Deſign of this Agreement, we ſhall find it to be nothi§.12. 2. We did expreſs our Diſlike of that Principle, on which either a Dioceſan, or Claſſical Chur§.13. 3. Agreeably hereunto, a particular Church ESSENTIAL, with its Rights and Liberties, is Aſſert§.14. 4. There is ſpecial care taken to ſecure this Principle by declaring in the ſecond Article, Th§.15. 5. This particular Congregational Church Eſſential, is more particularly deſcribed as to its M§.16. The Right of this Church Eſſential to chooſe its own Officers, is ſecured by Art. 6. That each§.17. 1. If this Article contains not the Truth, then indeed the Cauſe muſt be yielded to the Claſſi§.18. 2. But, if this Article, of the Ʋnited Brethren DOTH contain the Truth, and a particular Churc§.19. 3. If the Ʋnited Brethren, namely, the Engliſh Presbyterian and Congregationalists, do herein §.20. The Strength of what they offer on this Occaſion, lieth here; namely, in caſe Viſible Saints c§.21. As the Ʋnited Brethren have Aſſerted Particular Churches to be Congregational, ſo it's evident§.22. By the Heads of Agreement, as all that Church Power we claim is confined to Particular Congreg§.23. That very Form of Church Government, which alone can give juſt Ground of Suſpicion, is as Deſt§.24. That they deſtroy our Church way, is farther evident, in that they bring every Paroch and Cong§.25. That we are fully perſwaded, their Soundneſs in the Faith is ſuch, that they will never approv§.26. I might here take notice by whom this Claſſical Model was hatch'd, and how it was nouriſh'd un§.27. When our Governours, in their great Wiſdom, ſhall conſider how ſtrongly the Principles of the 
    _ SECT. III.
§.1. THE Principles held by the Engliſh Presbyterians about the Conſtitution, and Power of Particula§.2. The Principles, which the Claſſical or Scotch Presbyterians, who aſſert the Divine Right of a N§.3. In theſe particular Inſtances, you have a full, though brief Account of what is embraced by the§.4. That I may do the Engliſh Preſbyterians Juſtice, in the repreſenting their Principles I muſt co§.1. ABout the time that Luther with many others endeavour'd a Reformation of the Church, the Great §.2. The Domination, and Tyranny of Popiſh Prelates, who aimed more at Worldly Grandeur, than at the§.3. The firſt Reformers, as many of their Fore-Fathers, ſuch as the Wickliffiſts, Huſſiſts, &c. gro§.4. Here the Reformed fix'd their Foot, affirming, that the Univerſal Church was made up only of El§.5. The Papiſts being fully convinced that the Reformers had taken the moſt effectual way to ſubver§.6. The Reformed in this Kingdom agree'd with the Wickliffiſts, Huſſiſts, and Lutheranes, owning th§.7. If all that Power, which is meerly Spiritual and Eccleſiaſtical, be appropriated to particular §.8. This being for many Years after the Reformation began in this Land, generally received, the Eng§.9. The general Vogue of the Epiſcopal, as well as the Cry of the Nonconformiſts, being againſt the§.10. Dr. Heylin, a chief Inſtrument in this Deſign, did on the 24th day of April, Ann. 1627. anſwer§.11. In the Year 1633. Heylin was at Oxon to Anſwer for his Degree of Doctor, and inſiſted on the A§.12. Dr. Prideaux, then in the Chair, expreſſed great Diſſatisfaction with Heylin, charging him wit§.13. There was, we ſee, a great deal of ſtreſs laid on this Clauſe of the 20th Article, becauſe the§.14. (1.) That this Clauſe is not either in the Latin or Engliſh Copies, Printed Ann. 1571. is gran§.15. That the Old Nonconformists, whom I call Engliſh Presbyterians, being firm Adherers unto the f§.16. The Learned Mr. Cartwright, a Perſon of that eſteem amongſt the Nonconformiſts in the Reign of§.17. This Learned Cartwright, writing in Defence of the Admonition tot he Parliament, (Publiſhed in§.18. What I ſhall offer from the multitude of Nonconformists, whoſe Sorrows encreaſed on James the §.9. Soon after this Proteſtation, a Chriſtian, and Modest Offer of a most Indifferent Conference, o§.10. What is here affirm'd by theſe Deprived Miniſters is ſo full, not only againſt the Dioceſan, b§.11. And as they ſo freely expreſs their own true Senſe in theſe Matters, ſo it is with an Aſſuranc§.12. Theſe Engliſh Presbyterians were ſo fully convinced of the Truth of the aforeſaid Propoſitions§.13. As this offer for a Conference was made in the Year 1606, ſo 'twas followed Anno 1609, with a §.14. Theſe Quotations out of the old Engliſh Presbyterians, do ſufficiently evince, that they held,§.15. That in theſe Inſtances the Engliſh Presbyterian, and the Congregationalist are moſt entirely §.1. THE Engliſh Presbyterians, conſidered in Contradiſtinction unto the Browniſts, and other Diſſen§.2. This being a Point of extraordinary Importance, in the preſent Caſe, I will be the more Diſtinc§.3. My deſign is cheifly to clear the Truth and ſhow, that as the Independents did undoubtedly thei§.4. 1. That the Prelatiſts had their ſhare in the hindring it, is Apparent from what is in the Lett§.5. 2. The great Impediment that lay in their way, was the Power of the Engliſh Presbyterians, who §.6. 1. This Synod was not called either in the Dioceſan, or Claſſical way, as Mr. Baxter obſerves, §.7. 2. This Aſſembly when thus called, could not proceed by virtue of any Inherent Power in themſel§.8. 3. That one Reaſon, why the Aſſembly never adventur'd upon the ſettling the Divine Right of the§.9. 4. That the Author of certain Conſiderations tending to Peace amongſt Proteſtants, Printed by P§.10. 5. The Presbyterians of the Province of London, conſidering the Church-Government Eſtabliſhed S.11. 6. That Part of the Aſſemblies Confeſſion, which gave moſt Countenance to the Claſſical way, a§.12. Theſe Conſiderations may convince the Impartial Reader, that how much ſoever the Engliſh Presb§.13. Tho in many Places the Miniſters were for it, yet as Dr. Du-Moulin,When the Presbyterian Gover§.14. The Cheſhire Miniſters in their Atteſtation to the Teſtimony of the Reverend Brethren of the P§.15. There were amongſt the Miniſters a conſiderable Number, who entered into Aſſociations, and ſet§.16. Thus great Endeavours were, during the time the Aſſembly ſate, for the bringing in the Claſſic§.1. WHen Charles II. was Reſtored, ſoon after the Presbyterians were caſt out, and the Epiſcopal pu§.2. 1. Dr. Collings, who laboured much, and wrote well in the Controverſie about Church-Government,§.3. 2. In the Account he gives of their Opinions, he tells us, That they were for a Catholick Churc§.4. 3. The Doctor, in theſe Paragraphs, as he truly Repreſents the Engliſh Presbyterians to be of O§.5. 1. The Learned Mr. Baxter, who about the Nature and Conſtitution of Particular Churches, hath b§.6. 2. That he may the more clearly ſhew where the Strength of his Arguments doth lie, he diſtingui§.7. 3. Communion, which is the Eſſentiating End of theſe Societies, is twofold, The One ſort is in §.8. 4. That that Communion which is ſtretched beyond the Bounds of one ſingle Congregation, being o§.9. 5. This Point being with much earneſtneſs ſtated by this Learned Perſon, he declares in the Nar§.10. 6. What Mr. B. here affirms, reſpects chiefly the Communion of the Church, and upon this accou§.11. 7. That he was ſatisfied his Arguments were as much againſt Claſſical, as they were againſt Di§.12. What more directly belongs to the Government of the Church, we ſhall conſider, if God will, el§.1. THAT it may be the more eaſily underſtood what Principles the Presbyterians, who were Men of Se§.2. This Controverſie, as to that part of it which concerns my preſent Purpoſe, may be reduced to t§.3. In the Writings of Cawdrey, Hudſon, Hooker, Stone, Allen, Sheppard, and the Diſſenting Brethren§.4. 1. The Learned Mr. Cawdrey, who agreeth in Opinion with the Judicious Mr. Hudſon, and the Londo§.5. 2. The Judicious Mr. Hudſon, ſtates the Controverſie after the ſame manner, but more elaboratel§.6. 1. On the other hand, the First Reformers of all Perſwaſions ſubverted this Notion in their Opp§.7. 2. Fit Matter Combined, before formed into an Organick Body, is, (with them) the Church Eſſenti§.8. Theſe two Reverend Brethren do not, (I confeſs) think themſelves obliged to encumber this Contr§.9. Theſe then are the Points wherein Mr. Cawdrey, Hudſon, and others, who were for the Claſſical C§.10. Well then let us in the next place compare theſe diſtinct Notions with the late Heads of Agree§.11. 1. If we do but impartially obſerve the Deſign of this Agreement, we ſhall find it to be nothi§.12. 2. We did expreſs our Diſlike of that Principle, on which either a Dioceſan, or Claſſical Chur§.13. 3. Agreeably hereunto, a particular Church ESSENTIAL, with its Rights and Liberties, is Aſſert§.14. 4. There is ſpecial care taken to ſecure this Principle by declaring in the ſecond Article, Th§.15. 5. This particular Congregational Church Eſſential, is more particularly deſcribed as to its M§.16. The Right of this Church Eſſential to chooſe its own Officers, is ſecured by Art. 6. That each§.17. 1. If this Article contains not the Truth, then indeed the Cauſe muſt be yielded to the Claſſi§.18. 2. But, if this Article, of the Ʋnited Brethren DOTH contain the Truth, and a particular Churc§.19. 3. If the Ʋnited Brethren, namely, the Engliſh Presbyterian and Congregationalists, do herein §.20. The Strength of what they offer on this Occaſion, lieth here; namely, in caſe Viſible Saints c§.21. As the Ʋnited Brethren have Aſſerted Particular Churches to be Congregational, ſo it's evident§.22. By the Heads of Agreement, as all that Church Power we claim is confined to Particular Congreg§.23. That very Form of Church Government, which alone can give juſt Ground of Suſpicion, is as Deſt§.24. That they deſtroy our Church way, is farther evident, in that they bring every Paroch and Cong§.25. That we are fully perſwaded, their Soundneſs in the Faith is ſuch, that they will never approv§.26. I might here take notice by whom this Claſſical Model was hatch'd, and how it was nouriſh'd un§.27. When our Governours, in their great Wiſdom, ſhall conſider how ſtrongly the Principles of the 
    _ SECT IV.
§.1. THE Principles held by the Engliſh Presbyterians about the Conſtitution, and Power of Particula§.2. The Principles, which the Claſſical or Scotch Presbyterians, who aſſert the Divine Right of a N§.3. In theſe particular Inſtances, you have a full, though brief Account of what is embraced by the§.4. That I may do the Engliſh Preſbyterians Juſtice, in the repreſenting their Principles I muſt co§.1. ABout the time that Luther with many others endeavour'd a Reformation of the Church, the Great §.2. The Domination, and Tyranny of Popiſh Prelates, who aimed more at Worldly Grandeur, than at the§.3. The firſt Reformers, as many of their Fore-Fathers, ſuch as the Wickliffiſts, Huſſiſts, &c. gro§.4. Here the Reformed fix'd their Foot, affirming, that the Univerſal Church was made up only of El§.5. The Papiſts being fully convinced that the Reformers had taken the moſt effectual way to ſubver§.6. The Reformed in this Kingdom agree'd with the Wickliffiſts, Huſſiſts, and Lutheranes, owning th§.7. If all that Power, which is meerly Spiritual and Eccleſiaſtical, be appropriated to particular §.8. This being for many Years after the Reformation began in this Land, generally received, the Eng§.9. The general Vogue of the Epiſcopal, as well as the Cry of the Nonconformiſts, being againſt the§.10. Dr. Heylin, a chief Inſtrument in this Deſign, did on the 24th day of April, Ann. 1627. anſwer§.11. In the Year 1633. Heylin was at Oxon to Anſwer for his Degree of Doctor, and inſiſted on the A§.12. Dr. Prideaux, then in the Chair, expreſſed great Diſſatisfaction with Heylin, charging him wit§.13. There was, we ſee, a great deal of ſtreſs laid on this Clauſe of the 20th Article, becauſe the§.14. (1.) That this Clauſe is not either in the Latin or Engliſh Copies, Printed Ann. 1571. is gran§.15. That the Old Nonconformists, whom I call Engliſh Presbyterians, being firm Adherers unto the f§.16. The Learned Mr. Cartwright, a Perſon of that eſteem amongſt the Nonconformiſts in the Reign of§.17. This Learned Cartwright, writing in Defence of the Admonition tot he Parliament, (Publiſhed in§.18. What I ſhall offer from the multitude of Nonconformists, whoſe Sorrows encreaſed on James the §.9. Soon after this Proteſtation, a Chriſtian, and Modest Offer of a most Indifferent Conference, o§.10. What is here affirm'd by theſe Deprived Miniſters is ſo full, not only againſt the Dioceſan, b§.11. And as they ſo freely expreſs their own true Senſe in theſe Matters, ſo it is with an Aſſuranc§.12. Theſe Engliſh Presbyterians were ſo fully convinced of the Truth of the aforeſaid Propoſitions§.13. As this offer for a Conference was made in the Year 1606, ſo 'twas followed Anno 1609, with a §.14. Theſe Quotations out of the old Engliſh Presbyterians, do ſufficiently evince, that they held,§.15. That in theſe Inſtances the Engliſh Presbyterian, and the Congregationalist are moſt entirely §.1. THE Engliſh Presbyterians, conſidered in Contradiſtinction unto the Browniſts, and other Diſſen§.2. This being a Point of extraordinary Importance, in the preſent Caſe, I will be the more Diſtinc§.3. My deſign is cheifly to clear the Truth and ſhow, that as the Independents did undoubtedly thei§.4. 1. That the Prelatiſts had their ſhare in the hindring it, is Apparent from what is in the Lett§.5. 2. The great Impediment that lay in their way, was the Power of the Engliſh Presbyterians, who §.6. 1. This Synod was not called either in the Dioceſan, or Claſſical way, as Mr. Baxter obſerves, §.7. 2. This Aſſembly when thus called, could not proceed by virtue of any Inherent Power in themſel§.8. 3. That one Reaſon, why the Aſſembly never adventur'd upon the ſettling the Divine Right of the§.9. 4. That the Author of certain Conſiderations tending to Peace amongſt Proteſtants, Printed by P§.10. 5. The Presbyterians of the Province of London, conſidering the Church-Government Eſtabliſhed S.11. 6. That Part of the Aſſemblies Confeſſion, which gave moſt Countenance to the Claſſical way, a§.12. Theſe Conſiderations may convince the Impartial Reader, that how much ſoever the Engliſh Presb§.13. Tho in many Places the Miniſters were for it, yet as Dr. Du-Moulin,When the Presbyterian Gover§.14. The Cheſhire Miniſters in their Atteſtation to the Teſtimony of the Reverend Brethren of the P§.15. There were amongſt the Miniſters a conſiderable Number, who entered into Aſſociations, and ſet§.16. Thus great Endeavours were, during the time the Aſſembly ſate, for the bringing in the Claſſic§.1. WHen Charles II. was Reſtored, ſoon after the Presbyterians were caſt out, and the Epiſcopal pu§.2. 1. Dr. Collings, who laboured much, and wrote well in the Controverſie about Church-Government,§.3. 2. In the Account he gives of their Opinions, he tells us, That they were for a Catholick Churc§.4. 3. The Doctor, in theſe Paragraphs, as he truly Repreſents the Engliſh Presbyterians to be of O§.5. 1. The Learned Mr. Baxter, who about the Nature and Conſtitution of Particular Churches, hath b§.6. 2. That he may the more clearly ſhew where the Strength of his Arguments doth lie, he diſtingui§.7. 3. Communion, which is the Eſſentiating End of theſe Societies, is twofold, The One ſort is in §.8. 4. That that Communion which is ſtretched beyond the Bounds of one ſingle Congregation, being o§.9. 5. This Point being with much earneſtneſs ſtated by this Learned Perſon, he declares in the Nar§.10. 6. What Mr. B. here affirms, reſpects chiefly the Communion of the Church, and upon this accou§.11. 7. That he was ſatisfied his Arguments were as much againſt Claſſical, as they were againſt Di§.12. What more directly belongs to the Government of the Church, we ſhall conſider, if God will, el§.1. THAT it may be the more eaſily underſtood what Principles the Presbyterians, who were Men of Se§.2. This Controverſie, as to that part of it which concerns my preſent Purpoſe, may be reduced to t§.3. In the Writings of Cawdrey, Hudſon, Hooker, Stone, Allen, Sheppard, and the Diſſenting Brethren§.4. 1. The Learned Mr. Cawdrey, who agreeth in Opinion with the Judicious Mr. Hudſon, and the Londo§.5. 2. The Judicious Mr. Hudſon, ſtates the Controverſie after the ſame manner, but more elaboratel§.6. 1. On the other hand, the First Reformers of all Perſwaſions ſubverted this Notion in their Opp§.7. 2. Fit Matter Combined, before formed into an Organick Body, is, (with them) the Church Eſſenti§.8. Theſe two Reverend Brethren do not, (I confeſs) think themſelves obliged to encumber this Contr§.9. Theſe then are the Points wherein Mr. Cawdrey, Hudſon, and others, who were for the Claſſical C§.10. Well then let us in the next place compare theſe diſtinct Notions with the late Heads of Agree§.11. 1. If we do but impartially obſerve the Deſign of this Agreement, we ſhall find it to be nothi§.12. 2. We did expreſs our Diſlike of that Principle, on which either a Dioceſan, or Claſſical Chur§.13. 3. Agreeably hereunto, a particular Church ESSENTIAL, with its Rights and Liberties, is Aſſert§.14. 4. There is ſpecial care taken to ſecure this Principle by declaring in the ſecond Article, Th§.15. 5. This particular Congregational Church Eſſential, is more particularly deſcribed as to its M§.16. The Right of this Church Eſſential to chooſe its own Officers, is ſecured by Art. 6. That each§.17. 1. If this Article contains not the Truth, then indeed the Cauſe muſt be yielded to the Claſſi§.18. 2. But, if this Article, of the Ʋnited Brethren DOTH contain the Truth, and a particular Churc§.19. 3. If the Ʋnited Brethren, namely, the Engliſh Presbyterian and Congregationalists, do herein §.20. The Strength of what they offer on this Occaſion, lieth here; namely, in caſe Viſible Saints c§.21. As the Ʋnited Brethren have Aſſerted Particular Churches to be Congregational, ſo it's evident§.22. By the Heads of Agreement, as all that Church Power we claim is confined to Particular Congreg§.23. That very Form of Church Government, which alone can give juſt Ground of Suſpicion, is as Deſt§.24. That they deſtroy our Church way, is farther evident, in that they bring every Paroch and Cong§.25. That we are fully perſwaded, their Soundneſs in the Faith is ſuch, that they will never approv§.26. I might here take notice by whom this Claſſical Model was hatch'd, and how it was nouriſh'd un§.27. When our Governours, in their great Wiſdom, ſhall conſider how ſtrongly the Principles of the 
    _ SECT. V.
§.1. THE Principles held by the Engliſh Presbyterians about the Conſtitution, and Power of Particula§.2. The Principles, which the Claſſical or Scotch Presbyterians, who aſſert the Divine Right of a N§.3. In theſe particular Inſtances, you have a full, though brief Account of what is embraced by the§.4. That I may do the Engliſh Preſbyterians Juſtice, in the repreſenting their Principles I muſt co§.1. ABout the time that Luther with many others endeavour'd a Reformation of the Church, the Great §.2. The Domination, and Tyranny of Popiſh Prelates, who aimed more at Worldly Grandeur, than at the§.3. The firſt Reformers, as many of their Fore-Fathers, ſuch as the Wickliffiſts, Huſſiſts, &c. gro§.4. Here the Reformed fix'd their Foot, affirming, that the Univerſal Church was made up only of El§.5. The Papiſts being fully convinced that the Reformers had taken the moſt effectual way to ſubver§.6. The Reformed in this Kingdom agree'd with the Wickliffiſts, Huſſiſts, and Lutheranes, owning th§.7. If all that Power, which is meerly Spiritual and Eccleſiaſtical, be appropriated to particular §.8. This being for many Years after the Reformation began in this Land, generally received, the Eng§.9. The general Vogue of the Epiſcopal, as well as the Cry of the Nonconformiſts, being againſt the§.10. Dr. Heylin, a chief Inſtrument in this Deſign, did on the 24th day of April, Ann. 1627. anſwer§.11. In the Year 1633. Heylin was at Oxon to Anſwer for his Degree of Doctor, and inſiſted on the A§.12. Dr. Prideaux, then in the Chair, expreſſed great Diſſatisfaction with Heylin, charging him wit§.13. There was, we ſee, a great deal of ſtreſs laid on this Clauſe of the 20th Article, becauſe the§.14. (1.) That this Clauſe is not either in the Latin or Engliſh Copies, Printed Ann. 1571. is gran§.15. That the Old Nonconformists, whom I call Engliſh Presbyterians, being firm Adherers unto the f§.16. The Learned Mr. Cartwright, a Perſon of that eſteem amongſt the Nonconformiſts in the Reign of§.17. This Learned Cartwright, writing in Defence of the Admonition tot he Parliament, (Publiſhed in§.18. What I ſhall offer from the multitude of Nonconformists, whoſe Sorrows encreaſed on James the §.9. Soon after this Proteſtation, a Chriſtian, and Modest Offer of a most Indifferent Conference, o§.10. What is here affirm'd by theſe Deprived Miniſters is ſo full, not only againſt the Dioceſan, b§.11. And as they ſo freely expreſs their own true Senſe in theſe Matters, ſo it is with an Aſſuranc§.12. Theſe Engliſh Presbyterians were ſo fully convinced of the Truth of the aforeſaid Propoſitions§.13. As this offer for a Conference was made in the Year 1606, ſo 'twas followed Anno 1609, with a §.14. Theſe Quotations out of the old Engliſh Presbyterians, do ſufficiently evince, that they held,§.15. That in theſe Inſtances the Engliſh Presbyterian, and the Congregationalist are moſt entirely §.1. THE Engliſh Presbyterians, conſidered in Contradiſtinction unto the Browniſts, and other Diſſen§.2. This being a Point of extraordinary Importance, in the preſent Caſe, I will be the more Diſtinc§.3. My deſign is cheifly to clear the Truth and ſhow, that as the Independents did undoubtedly thei§.4. 1. That the Prelatiſts had their ſhare in the hindring it, is Apparent from what is in the Lett§.5. 2. The great Impediment that lay in their way, was the Power of the Engliſh Presbyterians, who §.6. 1. This Synod was not called either in the Dioceſan, or Claſſical way, as Mr. Baxter obſerves, §.7. 2. This Aſſembly when thus called, could not proceed by virtue of any Inherent Power in themſel§.8. 3. That one Reaſon, why the Aſſembly never adventur'd upon the ſettling the Divine Right of the§.9. 4. That the Author of certain Conſiderations tending to Peace amongſt Proteſtants, Printed by P§.10. 5. The Presbyterians of the Province of London, conſidering the Church-Government Eſtabliſhed S.11. 6. That Part of the Aſſemblies Confeſſion, which gave moſt Countenance to the Claſſical way, a§.12. Theſe Conſiderations may convince the Impartial Reader, that how much ſoever the Engliſh Presb§.13. Tho in many Places the Miniſters were for it, yet as Dr. Du-Moulin,When the Presbyterian Gover§.14. The Cheſhire Miniſters in their Atteſtation to the Teſtimony of the Reverend Brethren of the P§.15. There were amongſt the Miniſters a conſiderable Number, who entered into Aſſociations, and ſet§.16. Thus great Endeavours were, during the time the Aſſembly ſate, for the bringing in the Claſſic§.1. WHen Charles II. was Reſtored, ſoon after the Presbyterians were caſt out, and the Epiſcopal pu§.2. 1. Dr. Collings, who laboured much, and wrote well in the Controverſie about Church-Government,§.3. 2. In the Account he gives of their Opinions, he tells us, That they were for a Catholick Churc§.4. 3. The Doctor, in theſe Paragraphs, as he truly Repreſents the Engliſh Presbyterians to be of O§.5. 1. The Learned Mr. Baxter, who about the Nature and Conſtitution of Particular Churches, hath b§.6. 2. That he may the more clearly ſhew where the Strength of his Arguments doth lie, he diſtingui§.7. 3. Communion, which is the Eſſentiating End of theſe Societies, is twofold, The One ſort is in §.8. 4. That that Communion which is ſtretched beyond the Bounds of one ſingle Congregation, being o§.9. 5. This Point being with much earneſtneſs ſtated by this Learned Perſon, he declares in the Nar§.10. 6. What Mr. B. here affirms, reſpects chiefly the Communion of the Church, and upon this accou§.11. 7. That he was ſatisfied his Arguments were as much againſt Claſſical, as they were againſt Di§.12. What more directly belongs to the Government of the Church, we ſhall conſider, if God will, el§.1. THAT it may be the more eaſily underſtood what Principles the Presbyterians, who were Men of Se§.2. This Controverſie, as to that part of it which concerns my preſent Purpoſe, may be reduced to t§.3. In the Writings of Cawdrey, Hudſon, Hooker, Stone, Allen, Sheppard, and the Diſſenting Brethren§.4. 1. The Learned Mr. Cawdrey, who agreeth in Opinion with the Judicious Mr. Hudſon, and the Londo§.5. 2. The Judicious Mr. Hudſon, ſtates the Controverſie after the ſame manner, but more elaboratel§.6. 1. On the other hand, the First Reformers of all Perſwaſions ſubverted this Notion in their Opp§.7. 2. Fit Matter Combined, before formed into an Organick Body, is, (with them) the Church Eſſenti§.8. Theſe two Reverend Brethren do not, (I confeſs) think themſelves obliged to encumber this Contr§.9. Theſe then are the Points wherein Mr. Cawdrey, Hudſon, and others, who were for the Claſſical C§.10. Well then let us in the next place compare theſe diſtinct Notions with the late Heads of Agree§.11. 1. If we do but impartially obſerve the Deſign of this Agreement, we ſhall find it to be nothi§.12. 2. We did expreſs our Diſlike of that Principle, on which either a Dioceſan, or Claſſical Chur§.13. 3. Agreeably hereunto, a particular Church ESSENTIAL, with its Rights and Liberties, is Aſſert§.14. 4. There is ſpecial care taken to ſecure this Principle by declaring in the ſecond Article, Th§.15. 5. This particular Congregational Church Eſſential, is more particularly deſcribed as to its M§.16. The Right of this Church Eſſential to chooſe its own Officers, is ſecured by Art. 6. That each§.17. 1. If this Article contains not the Truth, then indeed the Cauſe muſt be yielded to the Claſſi§.18. 2. But, if this Article, of the Ʋnited Brethren DOTH contain the Truth, and a particular Churc§.19. 3. If the Ʋnited Brethren, namely, the Engliſh Presbyterian and Congregationalists, do herein §.20. The Strength of what they offer on this Occaſion, lieth here; namely, in caſe Viſible Saints c§.21. As the Ʋnited Brethren have Aſſerted Particular Churches to be Congregational, ſo it's evident§.22. By the Heads of Agreement, as all that Church Power we claim is confined to Particular Congreg§.23. That very Form of Church Government, which alone can give juſt Ground of Suſpicion, is as Deſt§.24. That they deſtroy our Church way, is farther evident, in that they bring every Paroch and Cong§.25. That we are fully perſwaded, their Soundneſs in the Faith is ſuch, that they will never approv§.26. I might here take notice by whom this Claſſical Model was hatch'd, and how it was nouriſh'd un§.27. When our Governours, in their great Wiſdom, ſhall conſider how ſtrongly the Principles of the 
    _ To Conclude.
§.1. THE Principles held by the Engliſh Presbyterians about the Conſtitution, and Power of Particula§.2. The Principles, which the Claſſical or Scotch Presbyterians, who aſſert the Divine Right of a N§.3. In theſe particular Inſtances, you have a full, though brief Account of what is embraced by the§.4. That I may do the Engliſh Preſbyterians Juſtice, in the repreſenting their Principles I muſt co§.1. ABout the time that Luther with many others endeavour'd a Reformation of the Church, the Great §.2. The Domination, and Tyranny of Popiſh Prelates, who aimed more at Worldly Grandeur, than at the§.3. The firſt Reformers, as many of their Fore-Fathers, ſuch as the Wickliffiſts, Huſſiſts, &c. gro§.4. Here the Reformed fix'd their Foot, affirming, that the Univerſal Church was made up only of El§.5. The Papiſts being fully convinced that the Reformers had taken the moſt effectual way to ſubver§.6. The Reformed in this Kingdom agree'd with the Wickliffiſts, Huſſiſts, and Lutheranes, owning th§.7. If all that Power, which is meerly Spiritual and Eccleſiaſtical, be appropriated to particular §.8. This being for many Years after the Reformation began in this Land, generally received, the Eng§.9. The general Vogue of the Epiſcopal, as well as the Cry of the Nonconformiſts, being againſt the§.10. Dr. Heylin, a chief Inſtrument in this Deſign, did on the 24th day of April, Ann. 1627. anſwer§.11. In the Year 1633. Heylin was at Oxon to Anſwer for his Degree of Doctor, and inſiſted on the A§.12. Dr. Prideaux, then in the Chair, expreſſed great Diſſatisfaction with Heylin, charging him wit§.13. There was, we ſee, a great deal of ſtreſs laid on this Clauſe of the 20th Article, becauſe the§.14. (1.) That this Clauſe is not either in the Latin or Engliſh Copies, Printed Ann. 1571. is gran§.15. That the Old Nonconformists, whom I call Engliſh Presbyterians, being firm Adherers unto the f§.16. The Learned Mr. Cartwright, a Perſon of that eſteem amongſt the Nonconformiſts in the Reign of§.17. This Learned Cartwright, writing in Defence of the Admonition tot he Parliament, (Publiſhed in§.18. What I ſhall offer from the multitude of Nonconformists, whoſe Sorrows encreaſed on James the §.9. Soon after this Proteſtation, a Chriſtian, and Modest Offer of a most Indifferent Conference, o§.10. What is here affirm'd by theſe Deprived Miniſters is ſo full, not only againſt the Dioceſan, b§.11. And as they ſo freely expreſs their own true Senſe in theſe Matters, ſo it is with an Aſſuranc§.12. Theſe Engliſh Presbyterians were ſo fully convinced of the Truth of the aforeſaid Propoſitions§.13. As this offer for a Conference was made in the Year 1606, ſo 'twas followed Anno 1609, with a §.14. Theſe Quotations out of the old Engliſh Presbyterians, do ſufficiently evince, that they held,§.15. That in theſe Inſtances the Engliſh Presbyterian, and the Congregationalist are moſt entirely §.1. THE Engliſh Presbyterians, conſidered in Contradiſtinction unto the Browniſts, and other Diſſen§.2. This being a Point of extraordinary Importance, in the preſent Caſe, I will be the more Diſtinc§.3. My deſign is cheifly to clear the Truth and ſhow, that as the Independents did undoubtedly thei§.4. 1. That the Prelatiſts had their ſhare in the hindring it, is Apparent from what is in the Lett§.5. 2. The great Impediment that lay in their way, was the Power of the Engliſh Presbyterians, who §.6. 1. This Synod was not called either in the Dioceſan, or Claſſical way, as Mr. Baxter obſerves, §.7. 2. This Aſſembly when thus called, could not proceed by virtue of any Inherent Power in themſel§.8. 3. That one Reaſon, why the Aſſembly never adventur'd upon the ſettling the Divine Right of the§.9. 4. That the Author of certain Conſiderations tending to Peace amongſt Proteſtants, Printed by P§.10. 5. The Presbyterians of the Province of London, conſidering the Church-Government Eſtabliſhed S.11. 6. That Part of the Aſſemblies Confeſſion, which gave moſt Countenance to the Claſſical way, a§.12. Theſe Conſiderations may convince the Impartial Reader, that how much ſoever the Engliſh Presb§.13. Tho in many Places the Miniſters were for it, yet as Dr. Du-Moulin,When the Presbyterian Gover§.14. The Cheſhire Miniſters in their Atteſtation to the Teſtimony of the Reverend Brethren of the P§.15. There were amongſt the Miniſters a conſiderable Number, who entered into Aſſociations, and ſet§.16. Thus great Endeavours were, during the time the Aſſembly ſate, for the bringing in the Claſſic§.1. WHen Charles II. was Reſtored, ſoon after the Presbyterians were caſt out, and the Epiſcopal pu§.2. 1. Dr. Collings, who laboured much, and wrote well in the Controverſie about Church-Government,§.3. 2. In the Account he gives of their Opinions, he tells us, That they were for a Catholick Churc§.4. 3. The Doctor, in theſe Paragraphs, as he truly Repreſents the Engliſh Presbyterians to be of O§.5. 1. The Learned Mr. Baxter, who about the Nature and Conſtitution of Particular Churches, hath b§.6. 2. That he may the more clearly ſhew where the Strength of his Arguments doth lie, he diſtingui§.7. 3. Communion, which is the Eſſentiating End of theſe Societies, is twofold, The One ſort is in §.8. 4. That that Communion which is ſtretched beyond the Bounds of one ſingle Congregation, being o§.9. 5. This Point being with much earneſtneſs ſtated by this Learned Perſon, he declares in the Nar§.10. 6. What Mr. B. here affirms, reſpects chiefly the Communion of the Church, and upon this accou§.11. 7. That he was ſatisfied his Arguments were as much againſt Claſſical, as they were againſt Di§.12. What more directly belongs to the Government of the Church, we ſhall conſider, if God will, el§.1. THAT it may be the more eaſily underſtood what Principles the Presbyterians, who were Men of Se§.2. This Controverſie, as to that part of it which concerns my preſent Purpoſe, may be reduced to t§.3. In the Writings of Cawdrey, Hudſon, Hooker, Stone, Allen, Sheppard, and the Diſſenting Brethren§.4. 1. The Learned Mr. Cawdrey, who agreeth in Opinion with the Judicious Mr. Hudſon, and the Londo§.5. 2. The Judicious Mr. Hudſon, ſtates the Controverſie after the ſame manner, but more elaboratel§.6. 1. On the other hand, the First Reformers of all Perſwaſions ſubverted this Notion in their Opp§.7. 2. Fit Matter Combined, before formed into an Organick Body, is, (with them) the Church Eſſenti§.8. Theſe two Reverend Brethren do not, (I confeſs) think themſelves obliged to encumber this Contr§.9. Theſe then are the Points wherein Mr. Cawdrey, Hudſon, and others, who were for the Claſſical C§.10. Well then let us in the next place compare theſe diſtinct Notions with the late Heads of Agree§.11. 1. If we do but impartially obſerve the Deſign of this Agreement, we ſhall find it to be nothi§.12. 2. We did expreſs our Diſlike of that Principle, on which either a Dioceſan, or Claſſical Chur§.13. 3. Agreeably hereunto, a particular Church ESSENTIAL, with its Rights and Liberties, is Aſſert§.14. 4. There is ſpecial care taken to ſecure this Principle by declaring in the ſecond Article, Th§.15. 5. This particular Congregational Church Eſſential, is more particularly deſcribed as to its M§.16. The Right of this Church Eſſential to chooſe its own Officers, is ſecured by Art. 6. That each§.17. 1. If this Article contains not the Truth, then indeed the Cauſe muſt be yielded to the Claſſi§.18. 2. But, if this Article, of the Ʋnited Brethren DOTH contain the Truth, and a particular Churc§.19. 3. If the Ʋnited Brethren, namely, the Engliſh Presbyterian and Congregationalists, do herein §.20. The Strength of what they offer on this Occaſion, lieth here; namely, in caſe Viſible Saints c§.21. As the Ʋnited Brethren have Aſſerted Particular Churches to be Congregational, ſo it's evident§.22. By the Heads of Agreement, as all that Church Power we claim is confined to Particular Congreg§.23. That very Form of Church Government, which alone can give juſt Ground of Suſpicion, is as Deſt§.24. That they deſtroy our Church way, is farther evident, in that they bring every Paroch and Cong§.25. That we are fully perſwaded, their Soundneſs in the Faith is ſuch, that they will never approv§.26. I might here take notice by whom this Claſſical Model was hatch'd, and how it was nouriſh'd un§.27. When our Governours, in their great Wiſdom, ſhall conſider how ſtrongly the Principles of the 
**Types of content**

  * Oh, Mr. Jourdain, there is **prose** in there!

There are 2 **omitted** fragments! 
 @__reason__ (2) : illegible (2)  •  @__resp__ (2) : #OXF (2)  •  @__extent__ (2) : 1 word (1), 1+ letters (1)

**Character listing**


|Text|string(s)|codepoint(s)|
|---|---|---|
|Latin-1 Supplement|§|167|
|Latin Extended-A|ſ|383|
|Latin Extended-B|Ʋ|434|
|General Punctuation|—•…|8212 8226 8230|
|Geometric Shapes|◊|9674|
|CJKSymbolsandPunctuation|〈〉|12296 12297|

##Tag Usage Summary##

###Header Tag Usage###

|No|element name|occ|attributes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.|__availability__|1||
|2.|__biblFull__|1||
|3.|__change__|5||
|4.|__date__|8| @__when__ (1) : 2013-12 (1)|
|5.|__edition__|1||
|6.|__editionStmt__|1||
|7.|__editorialDecl__|1||
|8.|__encodingDesc__|1||
|9.|__extent__|2||
|10.|__fileDesc__|1||
|11.|__idno__|6| @__type__ (6) : DLPS (1), STC (2), EEBO-CITATION (1), OCLC (1), VID (1)|
|12.|__keywords__|1| @__scheme__ (1) : http://authorities.loc.gov/ (1)|
|13.|__label__|5||
|14.|__langUsage__|1||
|15.|__language__|1| @__ident__ (1) : eng (1)|
|16.|__listPrefixDef__|1||
|17.|__note__|5||
|18.|__notesStmt__|2||
|19.|__p__|11||
|20.|__prefixDef__|2| @__ident__ (2) : tcp (1), char (1)  •  @__matchPattern__ (2) : ([0-9\-]+):([0-9IVX]+) (1), (.+) (1)  •  @__replacementPattern__ (2) : http://eebo.chadwyck.com/downloadtiff?vid=$1&page=$2 (1), https://raw.githubusercontent.com/textcreationpartnership/Texts/master/tcpchars.xml#$1 (1)|
|21.|__profileDesc__|1||
|22.|__projectDesc__|1||
|23.|__pubPlace__|2||
|24.|__publicationStmt__|2||
|25.|__publisher__|2||
|26.|__ref__|1| @__target__ (1) : http://www.textcreationpartnership.org/docs/. (1)|
|27.|__revisionDesc__|1||
|28.|__seriesStmt__|1||
|29.|__sourceDesc__|1||
|30.|__term__|1||
|31.|__textClass__|1||
|32.|__title__|3||
|33.|__titleStmt__|2||


###Text Tag Usage###

|No|element name|occ|attributes|
|---|---|---|---|
|1.|__argument__|5||
|2.|__body__|1||
|3.|__desc__|2||
|4.|__div__|95| @__type__ (95) : title_page (1), to_the_reader (1), errata (1), text (1), introduction (1), section (5), subsection (84), conclusion (1)  •  @__n__ (89) : 1 (6), 2 (6), 3 (6), 4 (6), 5 (5), 6 (4), 7 (4), 8 (4), 9 (4), 10 (4), 11 (4), 12 (4), 13 (3), 14 (3), 15 (3), 16 (3), 17 (2), 18 (2), 19 (2), 20 (2), 21 (2), 22 (2), 23 (2), 24 (2), 25 (2), 26 (1), 27 (1)|
|5.|__front__|1||
|6.|__g__|622| @__ref__ (622) : char:V (26), char:EOLhyphen (596)|
|7.|__gap__|2| @__reason__ (2) : illegible (2)  •  @__resp__ (2) : #OXF (2)  •  @__extent__ (2) : 1 word (1), 1+ letters (1)|
|8.|__head__|9||
|9.|__hi__|1569||
|10.|__p__|125| @__n__ (45) : 1 (13), 2 (13), 3 (8), 4 (5), 5 (3), 6 (2), 7 (1)|
|11.|__pb__|88| @__facs__ (88) : tcp:66396:1 (2), tcp:66396:2 (2), tcp:66396:3 (2), tcp:66396:4 (2), tcp:66396:5 (2), tcp:66396:6 (2), tcp:66396:7 (2), tcp:66396:8 (2), tcp:66396:9 (2), tcp:66396:10 (2), tcp:66396:11 (2), tcp:66396:12 (2), tcp:66396:13 (2), tcp:66396:14 (2), tcp:66396:15 (2), tcp:66396:16 (2), tcp:66396:17 (2), tcp:66396:18 (2), tcp:66396:19 (2), tcp:66396:20 (2), tcp:66396:21 (2), tcp:66396:22 (2), tcp:66396:23 (2), tcp:66396:24 (2), tcp:66396:25 (2), tcp:66396:26 (2), tcp:66396:27 (2), tcp:66396:28 (2), tcp:66396:29 (2), tcp:66396:30 (2), tcp:66396:31 (2), tcp:66396:32 (2), tcp:66396:33 (2), tcp:66396:34 (2), tcp:66396:35 (2), tcp:66396:36 (2), tcp:66396:37 (2), tcp:66396:38 (2), tcp:66396:39 (2), tcp:66396:40 (2), tcp:66396:41 (2), tcp:66396:42 (2), tcp:66396:43 (2), tcp:66396:44 (2)  •  @__n__ (84) : i (1), ii (1), iii (1), iv (1), v (1), 1 (1), 2 (1), 3 (1), 4 (1), 5 (1), 6 (1), 7 (1), 8 (1), 9 (1), 10 (1), 11 (1), 12 (1), 13 (1), 14 (1), 15 (1), 16 (1), 17 (1), 18 (1), 19 (1), 20 (1), 21 (1), 22 (1), 23 (1), 24 (1), 25 (1), 26 (1), 27 (1), 28 (1), 29 (1), 30 (1), 31 (1), 32 (1), 33 (1), 34 (1), 35 (1), 36 (1), 37 (1), 38 (1), 39 (1), 40 (1), 41 (1), 42 (1), 43 (1), 44 (1), 45 (1), 46 (1), 47 (1), 48 (1), 49 (1), 50 (1), 51 (1), 52 (1), 53 (1), 54 (1), 55 (1), 56 (1), 57 (1), 58 (1), 59 (1), 60 (1), 61 (1), 62 (1), 63 (1), 64 (1), 65 (1), 66 (1), 67 (1), 68 (1), 69 (1), 70 (1), 71 (1), 72 (1), 73 (1), 74 (1), 75 (1), 76 (1), 77 (1), 78 (1), 79 (1)|
|12.|__q__|60| @__rend__ (60) : inline (60)|
|13.|__trailer__|2||
